{"title": "Delhi: Man stabbed by wife; survives", "summary": "A driver was allegedly stabbed and wounded by his wife during a quarrel between them in south Delhi's Palam village area, police said on Wednesday.", "article": "NEW DELHI: A driver was allegedly stabbed and wounded by his wife during a quarrel between them in south Delhi's Palam village area, police said on Wednesday. Sanjay, the husband, sustained minor injuries during the incident which happened Monday, and is stated to be in stable condition, they said. The couple who tied the knot three years ago, got into a fight around 11.30pm, and it is during the fight, the wife stabbed the husband and injured him, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southwest) Manoj C. The injured was taken to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital after the incident, police said. The accused woman was arrested but later released on bail, the DCP said.", "link": "https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/delhi-man-stabbed-by-wife-in-domestic-row-survives/articleshow/92542687.cms", "date": "2022-06-29T15:10:41+05:30"}
{"title": "945 criminals held in Faridabad so far this year", "summary": " Almost seven months into the year, Faridabad police have so far arrested 945 criminals, a majority of whom jumped bail or they are proclaimed offenders. Nearly 412 POs and 512 bail jumpers arrested between January and June 25, police said on Tuesday.", "article": "GURUGRAM: Almost seven months into the year, Faridabad police have so far arrested 945 criminals, a majority of whom jumped bail or they are proclaimed offenders. Nearly 412 POs and 512 bail jumpers arrested between January and June 25, police said on Tuesday. A person can be declared a proclaimed offender after he/she does not attend court proceedings or police investigation. A bail jumper is someone who do not return for trial after being released on bail. Of the 945 criminals, 21 were wanted accused, two of whom carried a reward of Rs 50,000 each on their head (Sajjan alias Golu and Vikas alias Mahle). Three others  Nitin, Vishal and Sohaib  carried a reward of Rs 25,000 each. We have also arrested six accused who were carrying a reward of Rs 10,000 and 10 accused with a reward of Rs 5,000, said Faridabad police spokesperson Sube Singh . Police said that the crime branch of Sector 30 alone arrested nine wanted criminals. Sector 17 police arrested seven wanted criminals. DLF -2, central border and PO staff arrested one wanted criminal each . We are continuously making efforts to nab the criminals, Singh added.", "link": "https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/faridabad/945-criminals-held-in-faridabad-so-far-this-year/articleshow/92532334.cms", "date": "2022-06-29T08:15:22+05:30"}
{"title": "Ggm: Illegal colony crackdown top focus for town planner", "summary": " Having worked in Gurgaon as assistant town planner for nearly six years, the new district town planner (enforcement), Amit Madholia, is well aware of all the key issues in the district.", "article": "GURUGRAM: Having worked in Gurugram as assistant town planner for nearly six years, the new district town planner (enforcement), Amit Madholia , is well aware of all the key issues in the district. But after taking charge on Tuesday, he said that preventing development of illegal colonies and stopping unauthorised construction would be his top priorities. Drives against illegal colonies and unauthorised construction across the district will continue. We will also increase interaction with RWAs and encourage them to come forward and share information about various kinds of violations with the department to improve enforcement, he told TOI. I will also work on resolving issues between RWAs and developers in licensed colonies. This is, in fact, Madholias third stint in Gurugram . He served as an assistant town planner from 2011 to 2015 and again from 2017 to 2018. A graduate of the School of Planning and Architecture, Madholia was previously handing the issues of licenced colonies in sectors 58 to 80 as DTP at headquarters. He also worked as DTP in Yamunanagar, Karnal and Chandigarh districts. His predecessor, RS Batth, who has been transferred as DTP Karnal, conducted more than 200 demolition and sealing drives against illegal colonies in Gurugram in the past couple of years and cleared around 1,000 acres of land. Mushrooming and redevelopment of illegal colonies need to be stopped. Offenders often start developing illegal colonies after a demolition drive. Therefore, regular vigil has to be ensured by various agencies, the new DTP said. On the rising number of complaints against the property owners violating construction norms after being issued occupation certificates, he said that strict orders have been issued by top officials directing the district town planners to randomly check a few properties. In case the property owners have not adhered to the plan and made violations later, strict action would be taken against them, he said. Senior town planner Narendra Solanki, who has replaced Sanjeev Mann , is likely to take charge on Wednesday.", "link": "https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/gurgaon/gurugram-illegal-colony-crackdown-top-focus-for-new-town-planner/articleshow/92529799.cms", "date": "2022-06-29T03:14:53+05:30"}
{"title": "Gr Noida: First-year student found dead at varsity hostel", "summary": " The body of a first year student of sociology was found hanging from the ceiling fan at her hostel room in Sharda University on Monday, police said. A suicide note was not found, but police suspect the 19-year-old student of BA (Hons) suffered from depression due to family issues.", "article": "GREATER NOIDA: The body of a first year student of sociology was found hanging from the ceiling fan at her hostel room in Sharda University on Monday, police said. A suicide note was not found, but police suspect the 19-year-old student of BA (Hons) suffered from depression due to family issues. The incident took place around 7.45pm at the Mandela hostel of the Sharda University. But we got to know about it from a hospital memo around 10.40pm on Monday night, Vinod Kumar , SHO of Knowledge Park police station, said on Tuesday. Police said several friends had been trying to call Likha Jernim  who belonged to Arunachal Pradesh  since early evening, but she didnt respond. They also went up to her hostel room, but it was locked from the inside. After several attempts of knocking on the door and calling her, one of her friends went to the adjoining room and entered her room. The friend found Jernim hanging from the ceiling fan of the room. Her friends untied her and rushed her to the hospital where she was declared brought dead, Kumar said. During the investigation, police said, they found that Jermin suffered from depression due to family issues. Police informed her family members, who have reached Noida to take her last remains back home. The family has not raised any foul play. The body will be handed over to them after the post-mortem, the SHO said.", "link": "https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/noida/greater-noida-first-year-student-found-dead-at-varsity-hostel/articleshow/92532340.cms", "date": "2022-06-29T08:15:41+05:30"}
{"title": "Delhis districts on the up on school index", "summary": " Several districts in the city have shown consistent progress in school education, according to a report released by the Union education ministry.", "article": "NEW DELHI: Several districts in the city have shown consistent progress in school education , according to a report released by the Union education ministry . The report, called Performance Grading Index for Districts of India (PGIDI), covers the academic years 2018-19 and 2019-20 and provides insights on the status of school education in states and UTs, including key levels driving performance and critical areas. The structure comprises total weightage of 600 points across 83 indicators grouped under six categories  outcomes, effective classroom interactions, infrastructure facilities and students entitlements, school safety and child protection, digital learning and governance process. These are further divided into 12 domains. Each district has been ranked Daksh (PGIDI score of 90% and above), Utkarsh (81-90%), Atti Uttam (71-80%), Uttam (61-70%), Prachesta levels 1 to 3 (ranging from 31% to 60%) and Akanshi (ranging from 10% to 30%). While only two of Delhis districts  west A and northwest  made it to Atti Uttam category in 2018-19, seven districts achieved the rank in 2019-20. These include New Delhi, north, west A, west B, southwest B, east and southwest A. Of these, west B and southwest B were districts that were added in 2019-20. Among the 13 districts, southeast is at the bottom for 2019-20, scoring 401 out of 600. It is under the outcome category, which includes learning, quality, access, teacher availability and professional development, that most of the districts have scored low. However, seven districts that moved up from Uttam to Atti Uttam category have improved in the outcome, governance processes and effective classroom interactions (ECT). For instance, New Delhi districts score in the outcome category jumped from 157 in 2018-19 to 164. Similarly, it increased to 83 from 71 in 2018-19 for ECT. Even districts that have remained in Uttam category have seen a jump in their overall scores and individual indicators. For example, central district had scored 133 in outcome in 2018-19, which jumped to 148 in 2019-20, with its overall score moving up from 398 to 409. Meanwhile, no district across India has been ranked Daksh while Utkarsh includes just three districts in Rajasthan for 2019-20.", "link": "https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/citys-districts-on-the-up-on-school-index/articleshow/92529092.cms", "date": "2022-06-29T04:58:00+05:30"}
{"title": "Delhis govt children hospital to expand", "summary": "With the addition of beds, ICU facilities, better equipped surgical departments and neonatal care, Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalay is soon going to expand its pediatric care facilities.", "article": "NEW DELHI: With the addition of beds, ICU facilities , better equipped surgical departments and neonatal care , Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalay is soon going to expand its pediatric care facilities. The dedicated childrens hospital under Delhi government is getting a new block, which was initially planned to be developed as a dedicated Covid hospital after the second wave last year. However, since there was no surge in infection, the new building was allotted for the hospitals expansion. Dr Urmila Jhamb, its director, said, We will increase the facilities over time. The expansion of departments and beds are in the pipeline. The initial focus is on a huge pediatric ICU and cardiothoracic surgery, which are the need of the hour. Most children with congenital issues find it difficult to get admission in other government hospitals. The super-specialty hospital located in Geeta Colony provides comprehensive medical care for all pediatric-related medical and surgical illnesses under one roof. Spread across 1.6 hectares, it is also being developed as a postgraduate teaching and training institute. Trauma care services and neuro surgery have also been planned. The new building with 600 beds will allow for huge expansion. Out of these, 50-60 beds will be reserved for ICU and another 50-60 for NICU. We are also upgrading radiology services and ventilators. We have procured ECO and digital X-ray machines and are working towards purchasing a CT-MRI machine. Our current bed strength is 250. We are increasing the academic seats from four pediatric MD seats to 10, apart from two MCH surgery seats, said Jhamb. The hospital sees 1,600-1,700 children daily in the OPD, 200-300 in emergency and 40-50 admissions. Currently, the hospital provides special services in pediatric, gastroenterology, neurotology, nephrology with pediatric dialysis and neurology. Psychologists are also present to take care of children and provide certificates to specially abled ones. Our OPDs mostly see cases of diarrhea, upper respiratory problems, skin issues and fever. Admissions are usually done for heart-related problems and congenital abnormalities. We have pediatric ophthalmology, a dedicated ENT, orthopedics and a reasonably large department of pediatric surgeries. Neonatal surgeries are not carried out elsewhere, so we see a good number of patients at our facility, Jhamb said. Construction is likely to get over in the next few months and the block is expected to start by the year-end. The only hindrance is shortage of medical staff. The facility currently has a vacancy of around 17 posts of faculty members, apart from junior and senior residents.", "link": "https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/delhis-govt-children-hospital-to-expand/articleshow/92528999.cms", "date": "2022-06-29T04:52:00+05:30"}
{"title": "Delhi: 45-year-old kidnaps baby, kills her; dumps body", "summary": "A 45-year-old man was arrested for allegedly kidnapping and killing a three-month-old girl in northwest Delhi's Bawana on Monday. Police received a call about the missing daughter of a labourer, and later found her body in a drain.", "article": "NEW DELHI: A 45-year-old man was arrested for allegedly kidnapping and killing a three-month-old girl in northwest Delhi 's Bawana on Monday. Police received a call about the missing daughter of a labourer, and later found her body in a drain. Brijendra Kumar Yadav, DCP (Outer-North), said the girl went to sleep with her mother and sister in their shanty in Bawana on Sunday night. When her mother woke up at around 2am, she couldn't find the child. The panicked mother alerted other people and family members and their friends searched for the baby, but in vain, Yadav said. On Monday morning, around 5.30am, the family was informed by a woman rag-picker that the body of the child was lying in the drain. The family rushed to the spot, 150-200 meters away from their shack, and found their daughter dead. After the statutory formalities, the girls body was taken to the mortuary. During the inquiry, we scanned CCTV footage of the area and found that a person had sneaked into the shack and kidnapped the girl, police said on Tuesday. With the help of digital evidence, the identity of the accused was established and he was arrested. A team led by Rakesh Yadav, station house officer of Bawana police station led the investigation and questioned more than 50 people. A clue hinted at his presence in Bawana and the suspect, Sunil, a native of Etah in Uttar Pradesh, was finally nabbed. During interrogation, Sunil told us that he wanted to raise a baby and kidnapped the girl, said DCP Yadav. But Sunil had second thoughts about what he had done and fearing he might be caught, he threw the baby in the drain. His testimony is being scrutinised. We suspect that before committing the crime, he had conducted a recce of the area and the girls house. A police officer said the presence of mud and water in the cavities of the deceased baby suggested that she might have drowned to death. We are waiting for the post-mortem report, the officer said. Sunil is a semi-skilled labourer and works in a hosiery factory. He is unmarried and lives alone in a locality in Bawana. A case has been registered against him under sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 363 (punishment for kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code.", "link": "https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/delhi-45-year-old-kidnaps-baby-kills-her-dumps-body/articleshow/92528886.cms", "date": "2022-06-29T04:33:00+05:30"}
{"title": "Violence during MMA clash, Captain Crazy assaulted in Delhi", "summary": "MMA fighter Srikant Sekhar, aka Captain Crazy, was allegedly assaulted at Siri Fort auditorium around 10.30pm on June 24, when the supporters of another fighter, Zahoor Shah, threw a rolled paper at Sekhar in rage after which an organizer asked Sekhar to leave.", "article": "NEW DELHI: MMA fighter Srikant Sekhar , aka Captain Crazy , was allegedly assaulted at Siri Fort auditorium around 10.30pm on June 24, when the supporters of another fighter, Zahoor Shah , threw a rolled paper at Sekhar in rage after which an organizer asked Sekhar to leave. \"When he was leaving, a well-known fighter namely Abdul Azim Badakshi attacked him and punched him on the jaw. Sekhar was knocked down after which he was beaten up by others as well. Sekhar was then admitted at a hospital for treatment. On the basis of this statement and the MLC given by doctors describing the injuries as \"grievous\", an FIR was lodged. Speaking with TOI, one of Sekhar's friend said that a mob of dozens of people chased and assaulted Sekhar at the behest of the Afghan fighter. \"I didn't even see him coming neither I knew where he was. He hit me twice and I fell down. As I was on the floor, I saw officials pushing him and covering me up. Then the crowd broke into the arena and started stomping me, Sekhar said in his complaint. According to the FIR, the officials and his teammates tried to protect him but they also got beaten up in the process. They allegedly chased Sekhar with bricks and rods for several meters. Near the exit there was a cop car, I jumped into the car and they threw bricks on the car and spat on me. They even hit the car. Then the police car somehow helped me escape the mob and I was saved.. They destroyed property and were vandalising the stadium while searching for me from room to room and looting whatever they could find. A few guys even followed me to the hospital that night, Sekhar added in his complaint.", "link": "https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/violence-during-mma-clash-captain-crazy-assaulted-in-delhi/articleshow/92529385.cms", "date": "2022-06-29T04:38:00+05:30"}
{"title": "Delhi sweats as monsoon takes a rain check", "summary": " India Meteorological Department announced on Tuesday that the southwest monsoon would reach Delhi likely on June 30 or July 1. This forecast should hearten Delhiites, who suffered another uncomfortable day of high temperature and humidity on Tuesday.", "article": "NEW DELHI: India Meteorological Department announced on Tuesday that the southwest monsoon would reach Delhi likely on June 30 or July 1. This forecast should hearten Delhiites, who suffered another uncomfortable day of high temperature and humidity on Tuesday. IMD expects rain activity to begin from Wednesday and provide a respite from Thursday, even issuing an orange alert predicting light to moderate rain with gusty winds on Thursday. With the monsoon missing its normal onset date of June 27, the capital has been crying for rain. Delhi has received just 15.8mm of rainfall in June so far as against the normal of 56.1mm, a rain deficit of 72%. The monsoon is likely to hit Delhi between June 30 and July 1. It depends on rainfall distribution and rain intensity, said R K Jenamani, senior scientist, IMD. The met department hadnt forecast a date for monsoon onset in Delhi earlier to this. However, the arrival of the rain-bearing monsoon may still be delayed this year. Three to five days from the normal onset date is not considered a delayed monsoon. However, we can comment on this only after the monsoon hits Delhi, said Jenamani. According to IMD, the monsoon arrived in Delhi on July 13 in 2021 and on June 25 a year earlier. Though the met department has predicted rain activity from Wednesday, the day temperature showed no sign of abating on Tuesday. The maximum temperature recorded at Safdarjung, which is the citys base station, was 41.5 degrees Celsius, four degrees above normal. Before this, the citys highest maximum temperature for the month was on June 15 with 39.6 degrees Celsius. The heat index (feel-like temperature when relative humidity is combined with temperature) was 53 degrees Celsius. The relative humidity oscillated between 74% and 45%. Due to easterly winds, the weather has become humid for the past three days, explained Jenamani. However, as the clouds have arrived, rain can be expected in the city from Wednesday. Jenamani added, On Tuesday, the maximum temperature recorded in most stations departed by four to six degrees from the normal. According to IMD, Najafgarh recorded a high of 44.2 degrees Celsius, followed by Pusa at 43.5 degrees Celsius. Pitampura and Mungeshpur recorded a maximum temperature at 43.3 and 43.2 degrees Celsius, respectively, while both Palam and Ayanagar saw a maximum temperature of 42.2 degrees Celsius. The Ridge was the lone station on Tuesday to record trace rainfall till 5.30pm.", "link": "https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/delhi-sweats-as-monsoon-takes-a-rain-check/articleshow/92528887.cms", "date": "2022-06-29T04:33:00+05:30"}
{"title": "Fiance of Indian who helped run Chinese club held", "summary": " The fiance of Ravi Natwarlal Thakkar  the aide of Chinese citizen Xue Fei who illegally stayed in the country for two years and ran a club for Chinese expats in Greater Noida  was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly giving him shelter despite knowing that he was evading arrest.", "article": "GREATER NOIDA: The fiance of Ravi Natwarlal Thakkar  the aide of Chinese citizen Xue Fei who illegally stayed in the country for two years and ran a club for Chinese expats in Greater Noida  was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly giving him shelter despite knowing that he was evading arrest. Vaani Kondal (32) is a doctor in Delhis GB Pant Hospital, police said. Thakkar and Kondal had met in China while studying for MBBS in 2012. However, Thakkar returned to India without completing his degree. The two got engaged on June 8. On Sunday night, we had managed to track down Thakkar through Kondal, Anil Kumar, SHO, Beta-2 police station, said. Three more people were arrested along with him. It was found that ever since Feis arrest, Thakkar had been hiding at his fiances house in Delhi's Gautam Nagar area. Kondal had been trying to arrange lawyers to get anticipatory bail for Thakkar. She is from Himachal Pradesh, and is now working as a doctor at GB Pant Hospital in Delhi. An FIR has been registered against her under IPC section 212 (harbouring an offender), Kumar said. The case, said police, has now been transferred to STF. Thakkar and his fiance have been produced before the court, which sent them to judicial custody. The STF is trying to get his custody for interrogation, a senior officer of Noida STF unit told TOI.", "link": "https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/noida/fiance-of-indian-who-helped-run-chinese-club-held/articleshow/92532338.cms", "date": "2022-06-29T08:15:31+05:30"}
{"title": "Delhi's peak power demand hits all-time high of 7,601 MW", "summary": "With the weather unrelenting in terms of heat and humidity, Delhiites had no recourse on Tuesday other than to switch on the ACs and coolers, contributing to the record peak power demand of 7,601 MW, the highest ever recorded in the capital.", "article": "NEW DELHI: With the weather unrelenting in terms of heat and humidity , Delhiites had no recourse on Tuesday other than to switch on the ACs and coolers, contributing to the record peak power demand of 7,601 MW, the highest ever recorded in the capital. The demand broke the previous record of 7,409 MW on July 2, 2019. On Tuesday, Delhi recorded its all-time high peak power demand at 3.21 pm. As power demand in Delhi continues its northward climb, it is projected to go beyond the 8,000 MW-mark. Prior to June 9, Delhis peak power demand hadnt ever crossed 7,000 MW in the month of June. This year, the mark has already been breached nine times in June and once in May. In 2019 and 2020, the record demand was 6,314MW and 6,769 MW, respectively, both on the same date, June 29. In 2021, the peak was 6,921 MW on June 30 in 2021. The capital recorded a peak power demand of 7,166 MW on June 9, followed by 7,129 MW the following day. The figure rose to 7,047MW on June 12 and didnt dip below the 7,000 MW-mark for four more days on June 13 (7,311), June 14 (7,144), June 15 (7,334) and June 16 (7,188). The power demand dipped when the temperature and humidity decreased, but again breached 7,000 MW on Monday (7,249 MW) before breaking the all-time high record on Tuesday. Earlier in May, barring five day, Delhi's peak power demand crossed the 6,000 MW-mark every day. Delhis peak power demand in May had never crossed 6,000 MW in 2021 and 2020. In 2019, it had crossed that mark only on three occasions: May 29 (6,020 MW), May 30 (6,240 MW) and May 31 (6,461 MW). Cooling load is the main reason behind Delhis power load, an official explained on Tuesday. In fact, according to estimates, almost 50% of Delhis power demand in summer is because of the cooling load from air conditioners, coolers and fans. With power demand rising constantly and expected to ascend further, the two BSES distribution companies and Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited earlier said that they had invested substantial resources to strengthen the network and undertook several measures to ensure reliable power supply during the high-heat months.", "link": "https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/delhi-peak-power-demand-hits-all-time-high-of-7601-mw/articleshow/92528904.cms", "date": "2022-06-29T04:38:00+05:30"}
{"title": "Delhi at its worst: Why it felt like 55C yesterday", "summary": " Tuesday was likely the most oppressive day of the year in the capital so far. While the maximum temperature at Safdarjung was recorded at 41.5 degrees C, a shade higher than the previous day's maximum of 40.9 degrees, the real feel temperature was hazardously high at around 55C.", "article": "NEW DELHI: Tuesday was likely the most oppressive day of the year in the capital so far. While the maximum temperature at Safdarjung was recorded at 41.5 degrees C, a shade higher than the previous day's maximum of 40.9 degrees, the real feel temperature was hazardously high at around 55C. The real feel is a measure of the weather's impact on people, taking into account both temperature and humidity. While monsoon is likely to enter parts of UP and the hill states by Wednesday, it may hit Delhi-NCR on June 30 or July 1, IMD said. The wet bulb temperature (WBT) is another indicator of the impact of the weather conditions that is increasingly being used as climate change begins to hit more regions across the world. Defined as the lowest temperature at which water starts to evaporate, it can be measured by wrapping a wet cloth around a thermometer. Like real feel, WBTs also denote the combined effect of temperature and humidity on people. The WBT, as measured at Safdarjung at 2.30pm, was 30 degrees C on both Monday and Tuesday, the highest values reached so far this year. By contrast, when the highest temperature of the month was recorded on June 8, the WBT was a low 23.4 degrees C. Thats because relative humidity on June 8 (2.30pm) was 14%, which had risen more than three-fold to 45% by June 28, said R K Jenamani, senior scientist at IMD. The Met department plans to incorporate parameters such as WBT while developing a heat index for different regions of the country, which would better capture the impact of weather conditions on the population. The index could be operational by next year, sources said. Jenamani said the effect of rain in Delhi-NCR is likely to be felt by June 30 or July 1, when the maximum temperature is expected to drop to 33-35 degrees. The current spell of oppressive heat began nearly a week ago when humidity started rising in Delhi-NCR around June 23 with a change in wind direction from westerly to easterly. The latter dominates during the monsoon season.", "link": "https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/delhi-at-its-worst-why-it-felt-like-55-degree-celsius-on-tuesday/articleshow/92528902.cms", "date": "2022-06-29T04:35:00+05:30"}
{"title": "Delhi: 70-year-old dupes woman of Rs 20 crore, held", "summary": "A 70-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly duping a woman of Rs 20 crore on the pretext of investment in his granite mine in Rajasthan.", "article": "NEW DELHI: A 70-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly duping a woman of Rs 20 crore on the pretext of investment in his granite mine in Rajasthan. The accused, Pradeep Paliwal, a resident of Vasant Vihar , was also wanted in four other cases and had duped several people to the tune of around Rs 100 crore. In January 2014, Paliwal asked the complainant, Shakuntala, to invest Rs 20 crore in his mine and assured to pay her Rs 50 lakh each month. An MoU was signed between them in February 2014. On March 3, 2014, Paliwal executed a sale deed for 1.4 hectares land in Bhilwara district in Shakuntalas favour for Rs 21 lakh. In 2017, the accused again promised good quality granite to Shakuntala and signed an MoU for Rs 20 crore. When he failed to fulfill his promise to the complainant, a case was registered for misrepresentation, said a senior police officer. Over the last seven years, the accused kept changing his location to Karnataka, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Punjab and Delhi. After a lookout circular was issued against him, he started travelling in cars and avoided taking trains or flights. He used Telegram and a WhatsApp account with a Zimbabwe mobile number to evade the law. Using technical surveillance, his internet source was identified and his location was traced near Park Hotel in Shahdara, said the officer. Joint commissioner (EOW) Chhaya Sharma said, Paliwal was nabbed near Cross River Mall, Karkardooma along with his associate, Vinayak Bhatt. Bhatt was handed over to the CBI as he was wanted in a case lodged with them. Paliwal had been doing granite mining and running a real estate business for the past 20 years. In 2006, he reportedly got an HSIDC plot registered in his name with the help of forged papers. An FIR regarding this was lodged at Udyog Vihar police station in Gurgaon. In 2015, he obtained a loan of Rs 12 crore from a private bank on a mortgaged property. This FIR was lodged at Karol Bagh police station, added Sharma.", "link": "https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/delhi-70-year-old-dupes-woman-of-rs-20-crore-held/articleshow/92528953.cms", "date": "2022-06-29T04:44:00+05:30"}
{"title": "Delhi traces BA.5 sub-variant even as daily cases decline", "summary": "Covid-19 cases continued to remain below the 1,000 mark for the second consecutive day with Delhi recording 874 fresh cases and four deaths in the last 24 hours. Active cases stood at 4,482, while the positivity rate was 5.18%.", "article": "NEW DELHI/GURUGRAM: Covid-19 cases continued to remain below the 1,000 mark for the second consecutive day with Delhi recording 874 fresh cases and four deaths in the last 24 hours. Active cases stood at 4,482, while the positivity rate was 5.18%. The BA.5 sub-variant of Omicron , which is believed to be driving the latest surge in Covid-19 cases in European countries and South Africa, has been found in some samples collected in Delhi and Haryana in May and June. Sources said samples collected at AIIMS, Lok Nayak Hospital and ILBS had this strain. In Haryana, the BA.2 variant remains the dominant one at present, being detected in 75% of the samples sequenced. While the Delhi government health department did not comment on the finding of the new sub-lineage, officials associated with genome sequencing stated that Central, South East and South districts had shown the presence of BA.5. South East district magistrate Isha Khosla said, Two days ago, we got instructions to intensify vaccination and follow Covid protocols strictly, so we are focusing on that. Testing, tracking and isolation is being done by the rules. So far, there are no reports of clusters emerging for B.A.5, but we are keeping track of it. We had three patients carrying the B.A.5 sub-lineage, but they have been discharged. When they were admitted, they didnt show any severity and had mild symptoms. said Lok Nayak medical director Dr Suresh Kumar. Genome sequencing is not being done on samples from any specific district or hospitals. We found two samples carrying the B.A.5 sub-lineage of Omicron, said an ILBS official. Haryana health department officials told TOI that 580 samples were sent to Rohtaks Maharshi Dayanand University for genome sequencing in May and June. Of these, 260 had been processed with 195 having the BA.2 sub-type of Omicron, 54 with BA 2.23 and BA 2.38 and BA.5 and 10 probable Omicron or XT. One was found to have the B.1.1.529 sub-variant. Gurugrams chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav said the dominance of the Omicron sub-lineages explained the current spike in cases in the region. Omicron has a higher transmissible level. Its derivatives spread rapidly in absence of hand hygiene, social distancing and masks. Dr Lalit Kant, former scientist and head, epidemiology and communicable diseases division, ICMR, said, If genome sequencing is increased, more samples will be found carrying B.A.5, which is 13-15% more infectious. Vaccine immunisation is waning and people are becoming susceptible to the virus. Dr Jugal Kishore, head, medicine department at Safdarjung Hospital, said though extra measures were not required, surveillance should continue. From June 7 to 28, Delhi recorded 47 deaths, with two days registering six deaths. Preventive measures have to be adopted and precautionary doses should be increased to protect severe cases. However, there wont be any major surge owing to the new sub-variants. Those with a compromised immune system and comorbidities may be at risk, added Kishore.", "link": "https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/delhi-traces-ba-5-sub-variant-even-as-daily-covid-cases-decline/articleshow/92529395.cms", "date": "2022-06-29T04:39:00+05:30"}
{"title": "Delhi: Mohammed Zubair in police custody till July 2", "summary": "Describing the case based on an image from a Hindi movie against Alt News co-founder Mohammed Zubair as bordering on \"absurdity\", his counsel Vrinda Grover told a Delhi court on Tuesday that the police had called Zubair for questioning in some other case but arrested him in the present case in haste.", "article": "NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Tuesday extended the police custody of Alt News co-founder Mohammed Zubair , arrested in a case related to an allegedly objectionable tweet, to July 2, observing that he was being uncooperative. Chief metropolitan magistrate Snigdha Sarvaria added that Zubairs mobile phone or laptop used by him for posting the tweet was to be recovered from his Bengaluru residence. Zubair told the court the tweet was posted in 2018 and he had used an image from a Hindi film. He said he was being targeted because he challenges powerful people. From 2018 to 2022, tweets have not created a flutter Describing the case based on an image from a Hindi movie against Alt News co-founder Mohammed Zubair as bordering on \"absurdity\", his counsel Vrinda Grover told a Delhi court on Tuesday that the police had called Zubair for questioning in some other case but arrested him in the present case in haste. Grover told the court that many others had tweeted the same, and the only difference between those Twitter handles and his was his faith, his name and his profession. The police had on June 27 arrested Zubair for allegedly hurting religious sentiments following a complaint by a social media user who referred to a tweet from 2018. The complainant in the case goes by the Twitter name, Hanuman Bhakt, with an image of Lord Hanuman as his profile photo. From 2018 to 2022, these tweets have not created a flutter. Not a single ingredient of the offences invoked in this case is satisfied. Which are the two groups between whom enmity is created? Who does it incite? What is the insult? Many tweeted the said tweet and still there was no flutter. Prima facie there is no case. Honeymooners and brahmacharis are not the two groups creating unrest in the country, the senior counsel told the court. Explaining her observation, she said the image in Zubairs tweet was from a 1983 film of Hrishikesh Mukherjee, Kissi Se Na Kehna, and in the scene from which the image was used in the tweet, the actress had remarked on seeing a board outside a hotel that it was not honeymoon hotel, but Hanuman hotel. The prosecution had sought extension of Zubairs custody by five days on the ground that he did not cooperate with the investigating agency and his custodial interrogation was required to gather information regarding the device from which the tweet was made by the accused. Zubair was produced before the court on the expiry of his one-day police custody. Considering that the mobile phone/laptop of the accused for posting the tweet in question is to be recovered at the instance of accused Mohammed Zubair from his Bangalore residence, that the accused has remained non-cooperative and (with) the disclosure statement on record, four days PC (police custody) remand of accused is granted since accused is to be taken to Bangalore, the judge said in the order. Responding to the argument of Grover that the film from which the image was used had not been banned and that the image had not been edited, the court said it was of no help to the accused at this stage. During the hearing, Grover said Zubair was a journalist, has a Twitter following and speaks his mind in an independent country. Zubair is being targeted for his work. He may be challenging people who are powerful but that cant be a reason for his harassment, she claimed. She said the police were asking for his laptop which has nothing to do with the case. The police are abusing their power. Zubairs laptop is a storehouse of his personal information. They want his laptop because he is a journalist. Their laptops contain sensitive information. A fishing inquiry begins when the laptop is seized. That tweet cannot withstand legal scrutiny. He has been challenging people who are speaking certain things. Will that deprive him of his liberty? she asked. Pointing out that the anonymous Twitter handle which called out Zubairs tweet was opened only in 2021, she told the judge that this anonymous social media account needed to be investigated. The entire case borders on absurdityThe penalty under 153A is a maximum of three years. The penalty under 295 is up to two years. This is a tweet from 2018. Their own cause of action is March 2018. If an anonymous Twitter handle chose to create mischief in the country, those reasons should be investigated, Grover submitted. The public prosecutor, appearing for the police, claimed that it has become a trend to outrage the religious feelings of the Hindu community to become famous. He alleged that the accused had made several such outrageous posts in the past to hurt religious sentiments. This was a deliberate effort on his (Zubairs) part to create social disharmony and hurt religious feelings. He joined the probe but did not cooperate and various material from his phone were deletedThere is a requirement of police remand. This is the first time it came to the polices knowledge, the prosecutor argued. He threatened the investigating officer. His parents have his laptop from which data will be deleted. He came with a blank phone, said the prosecutor. He added that the complainant was not anonymous and his details were known.", "link": "https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/alt-news-co-founder-mohammed-zubair-in-police-custody-till-july-2/articleshow/92529383.cms", "date": "2022-06-29T04:36:00+05:30"}
{"title": "Crime against women on the rise in Delhi this year", "summary": " Crimes against women, including rape, molestation and kidnapping, have been on the rise this year.", "article": "NEW DELHI: Crimes against women , including rape, molestation and kidnapping , have been on the rise this year. Until June 15, this year 962 cases were reported against 833 in the same period last year, while there were 1,271 cases of molestation in the five and half months till June 15 compared with 1,022 in the same time last year. Police said the number of arrests and resolved cases had also gone up this year. Till June 15, the incidence of rape in Delhi saw a rise of around 11% in comparison with last year in the same time frame. However, a police officer explained that though there had been a rise in crimes against women in some categories, this was in part due to the prompt registration of FIRs in view of the zero-tolerance policy adopted by Delhi Police with regard to crimes against women. The officer also pointed out, Alongside, more cases have been solved and more accused arrested compared with the figures in 2021. Times View The rising number of crimes against women in the city is a matter of concern. The police must look into the reasons and find ways to curb them. Delhi Police claimed to have taken up various initiatives aimed at womens security, including the women-staffed pink booths to assist women in need and to guide them in accessing legal remedies. All-women patrolling teams were also launched in crowded areas and outside schools and colleges to deter criminals from trying to trouble them. A rise of around 24% was recorded in cases of molestation while cases of eve-teasing saw a slight decline of around 3%. Till June 15, 1,271 cases of molestation were reported when in the same time last year, there were 1,022 such cases. As for eve-teasing cases, 192 have been logged this year against 197 last year. Cases of kidnapping and abduction also saw a rise of around 9%. However, with regard to most of the cases of missing adults, it was found that the individuals had left home on their own. Recovery rate of rescuing minors was also on the higher end this year. While cases of rape were on the rise, as was the number of resolved cases. There was a 15% rise in the number of cases worked out, the figure going up to 853 cases this year from 738 last year. The number of people arrested was over 1,100 this year when the figure for last year in this regard was 947 till June 15. In January this year, a woman was abducted and confined to a room, beaten up and sexually assaulted in Kasturba Nagar. Police had immediately arrested the accused in the case and filed the charge-sheet within the stipulated time. The survivor had told police that she was abducted from Karkardooma, where she was living secretly after threats from the family of the accused. The woman had resisted the year-long advances of a 14-year-old boy. The boy was so besotted with her that he is alleged to have jumped on the railway tracks and killed himself in November last year. The angered family had then assaulted the woman.", "link": "https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/crime-against-women-on-the-rise-this-year-delhi-cops-attribute-it-to-prompt-filing-of-firs/articleshow/92528895.cms", "date": "2022-06-29T04:36:00+05:30"}
{"title": "Mohammad Zubair case: Cops may write to ED, I-T", "summary": " Delhi Police is in the process of writing to federal agencies, like the Enforcement Directorate and income tax department, regarding alleged inward transactions worth around Rs 50 lakh within three months to the bank account related to fact-checking website AltNews. The development is in connection with the arrest of Mohammad Zubair, the co-founder of the website.", "article": "NEW DELHI: Delhi Police is in the process of writing to federal agencies, like the Enforcement Directorate and income tax department, regarding alleged inward transactions worth around Rs 50 lakh within three months to the bank account related to fact-checking website AltNews. The development is in connection with the arrest of Mohammad Zubair, the co-founder of the website. Certain entities/firms who allegedly transferred funds were under the scanner, said sources, adding that ED was likely to initiate a money laundering investigation after receiving relevant documents from police. As of now, cops are probing large transfers to the account and will quiz Zubair regarding them. Read Also Alt News co-founder Mohammed Zubair in police custody till July 2 Describing the case based on an image from a Hindi movie against Alt News co-founder Mohammed Zubair as bordering on \"absurdity\", his counsel Vrinda Grover told a Delhi court on Tuesday that the police had called Zubair for questioning in some other case but arrested him in the present case in Zubair, who was produced before the court of chief metropolitan magistrate Snigdha Sarvaria, would be in police remand for four days during which he would be taken to Bengaluru for recovering his laptop and other things. On Tuesday, police claimed that a notice under Section 41A of CrPC was given to Zubair to join the investigation prior to his arrest. However, they went for his arrest after he remained evasive and his phone was found formatted. The search memo signed by Zubair at the time of arrest showed the recovery of the notice, sources said. Police clarified that the FIR against Zubair was registered suo motu during a social media monitoring exercise. DCP (Cyber Cell) KPS Malhotra said Zubairs objectionable tweet had led to a Twitter storm with hate speeches detrimental to communal harmony. Two things, technical gadget and intention, were important. He was evasive on both and the phone had been formatted. This formed the grounds for his arrest, he added. Regarding the claim that police acted in a matter of 2018, Malhotra said time didnt matter in the investigation of a case. He added, You only have to re-tweet and it becomes new. Police action was on the basis of when the matter came to our cognisance. On the allegations of the case being politically motivated, Malhotra said if someone was booked in several cases, it was well within polices rights to question him in all. The judiciary is involved, custody was given and bail not granted. There must be some substance to the case. Calling it politically motivated doesnt stand right. The case will be investigated on merit, he added. On Monday, Zubair was arrested on the charges of promoting enmity on religious grounds and deliberately hurting religious feelings through a post on Twitter wherein he allegedly posted a questionable image with a purpose to deliberately insult the god of a particular religion. Zubair was booked under IPC sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc, and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony).", "link": "https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/alt-news-co-founder-mohammad-zubair-case-delhi-cops-may-write-to-ed-i-t/articleshow/92529378.cms", "date": "2022-06-29T04:32:00+05:30"}
{"title": "Man kills wife over drinking habit in Delhi", "summary": "A 32-year-old man was arrested for allegedly killing his wife over her drinking habit in south Delhi's Maidan Garhi area, police said on Tuesday. A brother of the accused was also involved in the incident and is currently absconding, they said.", "article": "NEW DELHI: A 32-year-old man was arrested for allegedly killing his wife over her drinking habit in south Delhi 's Maidan Garhi area, police said on Tuesday. A brother of the accused was also involved in the incident and is currently absconding, they said. On Sunday, a resident of Asola area had filed a complaint with Maidan Garhi Police Station saying that his wife, 35, was missing, police said. Sunil Kumar said that his wife had gone missing from their home on June 13 and since then there was no word about her from anywhere. Kumar was enquired and his role was found suspicious. Police also found it suspicious that it took him so long to file a missing person report, a senior police officer said. During interrogation, Kumar revealed that he had killed his wife on June 14 with the help of his brother as he was fed up with her habits, the officer said. The accused was fed up with drinking habit of his wife and also her habit of staying outside most of the time, which led him to suspect her \"character\" too, Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) Benita Mary Jaiker said. She said that Kumar approached police to file a missing person report only when he got to know that he was accused of murdering his wife by his in-laws in Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh. After interrogation, Kumar was booked under sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), and several others, of the Indian Penal Code, they said. At his instance, police also recovered the body of his wife, which he had dumped in Bhati Mines jungle. On June 14, Kumar, according to police, convinced his wife that they will go to home through the jungle, and when they were deep inside in it, he strangled her. Kumar's brother, Chhotu, 27, has also been booked as an accused, and efforts are on to nab him too, police said. The brothers worked as vendor in weekly markets.", "link": "https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/man-32-arrested-for-killing-wife-over-drinking-habit-in-south-delhi-area/articleshow/92526787.cms", "date": "2022-06-28T21:33:26+05:30"}
{"title": "'Zubair's 2018 tweet led to Twitter storm'", "summary": " A day after fact-checking website Alt News co-founder Mohammed Zubair was arrested, the Delhi Police said on Tuesday that his \"objectionable tweet of 2018 led to a Twitter storm with hate speeches, detrimental to communal harmony\".", "article": "NEW DELHI: A day after fact-checking website Alt News co-founder Mohammed Zubair was arrested, the Delhi Police said on Tuesday that his \"objectionable tweet of 2018 led to a Twitter storm with hate speeches, detrimental to communal harmony\". Read Also Mohammed Zubair, Alt News co-founder, received Rs 50 lakh in last 3 months: Delhi Police A Delhi court on Tuesday sent Alt News co-founder Mohammed Zubair to four days of police remand, a day after he was arrested on the charges of hurting religious sentiments and promoting enmity by Delhi Police. \"In such cases, finding the gadget used to post such tweets and the intention behind posting such a tweet is important. During questioning, he has been evasive on both fronts. We found out that his phone was formatted. His evasiveness formed the grounds for his arrest,\" KPS Malhotra, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Intelligence Fusion & Strategic Operations) said. The police officer said a four-member police team will be sent to Zubair's house in Bengaluru on Wednesday to recover evidence, including the mobile phone or laptop used by him for posting the tweet in question. The mobile phone that he is currently using is formatted and does not have information related to the case that is being investigated. However, the phone will be sent to forensic lab for examination, the officer said. During investigation, when asked about his phone through which he posted the alleged tweet in 2018, he told police that he had lost it. \"He joined the probe but did not cooperate and various material from his phone was deleted,\" he added. Asked about the objectional tweet, Zubair told the investigators that he did post the tweet but did not specify any reason for doing so, the officer said. A Delhi court on Tuesday extended by four days the custodial interrogation of Zubair. During the hearing, Zubair's counsel said that the photo which he had used in the tweet was from a Hindi film of 1983 by Hrishikesh Mukherjee, \"Kissi Se Na Kehna\", and that the film was not banned. The court, however, rejected the submission saying it was of no assistance to the accused at this stage. Officials in the Delhi Police told PTI that the FIR was registered on June 20 against Zubair. According to an emergency police officer on duty, \"during social media monitoring, it came to notice that a Twitter handle namely Hanuman Bhakt @balajikijaiiin shared a tweet against another Twitter handle in the name of Mohammed Zubair@zoo_bear in which it has been tweeted by Zubair that 'Before 2014: Honeymoon Hotel. After 2014: Hanuman Hotel' and has shown a picture of a sign board of one hotel name \"Honeymoon Hotel\" changed to \"Hanuman Hotel,\" the FIR read. According to the first information report, Bhakt @balajikijaiiin tweeted that, \"Linking our God Hanuman ji with Honey Moon is direct insult of Hindus because he is brahmchari. Kindly take action against this guy\". \"These words and picture found to be used by Zubair against a particular religious community and are highly provocative and more than sufficient to incite feeling of hatred amongst people which can be detrimental for maintenance of public tranquility in the society,\" the FIR stated. It further stated that transmission and publication of such posts has been deliberately done by Zubair through electronic media to insult the religious feelings of a particular community with intent to provoke breach of peace and the SI also stated that the FIR is not to be uploaded being \"sensitive\" in nature. Earlier in the day, the Delhi Police told the court that Zubair allegedly \"used controversial tweets to hurt religious feelings in an effort to get fame\". Zubair was arrested by the Delhi Police on Monday for allegedly hurting religious sentiments through one of his tweets posted in 2018, officials said. Police claimed that Zubair posted such tweets to increase his followers, but did not substantiate the claim. His arrest drew condemnations from various quarters, including journalists' bodies and Opposition parties. On Tuesday, Alt News co-founder Pratik Sinha rejected a media report that Zubair had received Rs 50 lakh in his account in the last three months. Sinha shared the news article on Twitter and said, \"Fact-check: Absolutely lies. Police is linking donations received by Alt News to Zubair. All the money that Alt News receives goes to the organisations bank and not any individuals. The bank statement of Zubair's personal account of which I have a copy debunks this falsehood.\" However, DCP Malhotra said that they are also looking at the source of funding received by Zubair and as per the investigation so far, they do have evidence that in the last three months, Zubair had received Rs 50 lakh in his bank account. When asked if Sinha has anything to do with the case, the officer said so far, his involvement has not been found. Earlier this month, a case against Zubair was registered under sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, language etc.) and 295A (deliberate and malicious act intended to outrage religious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the DCP said. However, he was arrested in connection with one of his tweets that had a questionable image with a purpose to deliberately insult the god of a particular religion, he said. On Monday, Sinha alleged that Zubair was arrested in a case for which no notice was given by the police, which is mandatory under law for the sections under which he has been held.", "link": "https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/mohammed-zubairs-objectionable-tweet-of-2018-led-to-twitter-storm-with-hate-speeches-delhi-police/articleshow/92526800.cms", "date": "2022-06-28T21:35:05+05:30"}